Some random text
 1.1.2.  The Excellence of Rain 11. The world its course maintains through life that rain unfailing gives; Thus rain is known the true ambrosial food of all that lives. By the continuance of rain the world is preserved in existence; it is therefore worthy to be called ambrosia. 12. The rain makes pleasant food for eaters rise; As food itself, thirst-quenching draught supplies. Rain produces good food, and is itself food. 13. If clouds, that promised rain, deceive, and in the sky remain, Famine, sore torment, stalks o'er earth's vast ocean-girdled plain. If the cloud, withholding rain, deceive (our hopes) hunger will long distress the sea-girt spacious world. 14. If clouds their wealth of waters fail on earth to pour, The ploughers plough with oxen's sturdy team no more. If the abundance of wealth imparting rain diminish, the labour of the plough must cease. 15. 'Tis rain works all: it ruin spreads, then timely aid supplies; As, in the happy days before, it bids the ruined rise. Rain by its absence ruins men; and by its existence restores them to fortune. 16. If from the clouds no drops of rain are shed. 'Tis rare to see green herb lift up its head.4 If no drop falls from the clouds, not even the green blade of grass will be seen. 17. If clouds restrain their gifts and grant no rain, The treasures fail in ocean's wide domain. Even the wealth of the wide sea will be diminished, if the cloud that has drawn (its waters) up gives them not back again (in rain). 18. If heaven grow dry, with feast and offering never more, Will men on earth the heavenly ones adore. If the heaven dry up, neither yearly festivals, nor daily worship will be offered in this world, to the celestials. 19. If heaven its watery treasures ceases to dispense, Through the wide world cease gifts, and deeds of 'penitence'. If rain fall not, penance and alms-deeds will not dwell within this spacious world. 20 When water fails, functions of nature cease, you say; Thus when rain fails, no men can walk in 'duty's ordered way'. If it be said that the duties of life cannot be discharged by any person without water, so without rain there cannot be the flowing of water.